Update Deck Options (#250)
ankitects/anki-manual: src/deck-options.md

<!-- toc -->

> Deck options primarily control the way Anki schedules cards. If you're a new user, it's recommended

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Deck options primarily control the way Anki schedules cards. It is recommended
```
I'm recommending this stay the same and here's why -- tons of folks think they aren't new users, but if they are seeing this page or considering changing options for the first time, it's probably still too soon for them to be making changes!

that you spend a few weeks with the defaults to get a feel for how Anki works
before you start adjusting the options. Please make sure you understand the options
before changing them, as mistakes could reduce Anki's effectiveness.

If you're on the desktop app, do any of the following to access deck options:

- Click the gear icon on the Decks screen.

> - Select a deck on the Decks screen, and then click "Options"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Select a deck on the Decks screen, and then click **Options**
```

  at the bottom of the screen.

> - Click "More" > "Options" while in review mode.
> - Press <kbd>o</kbd> while in review mode.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Click **More** > **Options** while studying.
- Press <kbd>o</kbd> while studying.
```

Author: Goggle style is wrapping the whole part with bold tags. In Markdown, this would be `**More > Options**`. I think this one is what Microsoft does but it's busy work and I don't like it. Should I proceed with Google style?

Reviewer: You proposed "bold," so I changed it to bold when making my other edits. I have no particular allegiance to one style over another. If there's something specific you want settled, that's a question for #253 -- and it should be documented.

Author: I linked to how Google handles UI elements.

Reviewer: This doesn't appear resolved to me.

Author: I've unresolved this as you asked. This highlighting issue only came up later, so I wasn't exactly planning to do this here.

> Here are some community posts about deck options:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This page describes the options shown in Anki 2.1.45+, with the
v3 scheduler. On older versions, some options will not be available, or
will appear in different sections. 

For some broad information about deck options, see these community posts:
```

Author: I don't understand the logic behind this. Documentation is written to be relevant for the times, and nobody gets confused when earlier versions have different or missing options. You've misjudged the reader if you think they will appreciate this factoid.

Reviewer: You already proposed an overall guideline for the manual to stop documenting changes. I don't think that proposal has been generally accepted -- https://github.com/ankitects/anki-manual/issues/252#issuecomment-2300015450 -- in contrast with your proposal to reduce/corral references to v1/v2 -- https://github.com/ankitects/anki-manual/issues/233#issue-2458510129 . 

I edited this to be in line with the idea of those 2 proposals. (Although, both of them would benefit from some concrete information about what you're intending to change/move to implement them.)

Author: > Currently, various parts of the manual tells the user when a feature was added.

I think I found and have kept one of those here, but this one seemed a relic from the past so I removed.

Reviewer: Also not resolved.

- [Deck Options Explained](https://forums.ankiweb.net/t/deck-options-explained/213)
- [Deck Options in a Mental Map](https://forums.ankiweb.net/t/deck-options-in-a-mental-map/15757)

> Note: both of them were written for the earlier versions of Anki.

Reviewer: I don't think that's accurate or needed here. While "Explained" was published in June 2020 -- circa 2.1.26 -- the Mental Map was published in Dec 2021 -- circa 2.1.49 -- and updated substantively in 2023. It definitely doesn't predate 2.1.45.

If there are problems with either one of them, let's talk about how to address that in brief, but don't just equate old with bad.

Author: If you've noticed, I always write "earlier" and never "old". Earlier isn't bad. It's just useful to know that they are written for earlier versions, as that is something people never presume on their own.

I'm not sure whether you're saying the first post is still mostly updated, I think the sections were for earlier Anki versions. As for cqg's post, I remember I found some missing info there, and it was updated last in 2023.

Reviewer: What I'm saying is (1) compared to the fixed reference point of 2.1.45, these aren't necessarily "earlier," and (2) you should know what's in them before you change how they are described here.

Author: 1. I was never made aware of this terminology. I have been using earlier to mean anything not from this time.
2. I've read those.

Reviewer: Also not resolved.

Deck options primarily control the way Anki schedules cards. It is recommended
that you spend a few weeks with the defaults to get a feel for how Anki works
before you start adjusting the options. Please make sure you understand the options
before changing them, as mistakes can reduce Anki's effectiveness.

> On desktop, do any of the following to open deck options:

Reviewer: That was what I was thinking as well. https://github.com/ankitects/anki-manual/pull/250#discussion_r1730425049

To change the options in one deck but not other decks, click the
arrow icon in the top right of the Deck Options window. You can do the following:

- **Save**: Save all modifications you've made in deck options.
- **Add Preset**: Add a new preset for this deck, with the default options.
- **Clone**: Clone your current preset, which is useful if you
   want to modify some of the  options but keep the rest as they are.
- **Rename**: Change the name of the current preset.
- **Delete**: Delete the current preset. This will make your next sync
  a [one-way sync.](https://docs.ankiweb.net/syncing.html?highlight=one%20way%20syn#conflicts).
- **Save to All Subdecks**: Like **Save**, but also assigns the selected preset to all
  subdecks of the currently selected deck.
- **Optimize All Presets**: When FSRS is enabled, this allows you to optimize the parameters of all presets at once.

Deck options are not retroactive. For example, if you change an option that
controls the delay after failing a card, cards that you failed before 
changing this option will still have the old delay, not the new one.

## Subdecks

> If your deck has subdecks, you can assign each subdeck a different preset.

Reviewer 2: How about:

```suggestion
If your deck has subdecks, and you wish one or more subdecks to have different settings to the parent decks, you can assign those subdecks to different presets.
```

- The [display order](#display-order) options are taken from the
  deck you select to study, not the deck of the current card.

For example, let's say you have this collection:

    - Deck A (Preset 1)
      - Deck A::Subdeck B (Preset 2)

Preset 1 and Preset 2 are identical, with two exceptions:

- Preset 1:
  - Learning steps: 1m 10m
  - New/review order: Mix with reviews
- Preset 2:
  - Learning steps: 20m 2h
  - New/review order: Show after reviews

If you choose to study Subdeck B:

- Learning steps for all new cards will be 20m 2h (Preset 2 applies).
- All new cards will be shown after reviews (Preset 2 applies).

If you choose to study Deck A:

- Learning steps for new cards in Deck A will be 1m 10m (Preset 1 applies).
- Learning steps for new cards in Subdeck B will be 20m 2h (Preset 2 applies).
- All new cards will be mixed with reviews (Preset 1 applies).

## Daily Limits

### New Cards/Day

This option controls how many new cards can be introduced each day you open the program. If you
study fewer than the limit, or miss a day, the next day the counts will be back

> to their limit: the cards do not accumulate.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
to their original setting: you won't be given more cards than your limit allows.
```

When studying a deck that has subdecks inside it, the limits set on each subdeck control the maximum number of cards drawn from that particular deck. The selected deck's limits control the total number of cards that will be shown.

For earlier versions, see [this FAQ page](https://faqs.ankiweb.net/the-anki-2.1-scheduler.html).

Studying new cards will temporarily increase the number of reviews you need to

> do a day, as newly learnt material needs to be repeated a number of times

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
do a day, as newly-learnt material needs to be repeated a number of times
```

before the delay between repetitions can increase appreciably. If you are
consistently learning 20 new cards a day, you can expect your daily reviews to
be roughly about 200 cards/day. You can decrease the reviews required by
introducing fewer new cards each day until your review burden decreases. More than one Anki user has excitedly studied
hundreds of new cards over their first few days of using the program, and then has
become overwhelmed by the reviews required.

### Maximum Reviews/Day

Allows you to set an upper limit on the number of review cards to show each day.
When this limit is reached, Anki will not show any more review cards for the
day, even if there are more waiting. If you study consistently, this setting can
help to smooth out occasional peaks in due card counts, and can save you from a
heart attack when returning to Anki after taking a week off. When reviews have been
hidden due to this option, a message will appear in the congratulations screen,
suggesting you consider increasing the limit if you have time.

When studying a deck that has subdecks inside it, the review limit behaves similarly to the new card limit.

> Anki includes any learning cards that have [crossed the day boundary](https://docs.ankiweb.net/preferences.html#scheduler) (interday learning cards) in the review count,

Reviewer 2: Since this is part of the manual, we should use a local link (like ./preferences.md) instead of a remote link.

If you have a backlog of overdue review cards, it is recommended that you stop introducing new cards until you
catch up with that backlog. Continuing to introduce new cards when you're already behind can 
make the backlog worse.

### Limits Start From The Top

By default, the daily limits of a higher-level deck do not apply if you're studying from its subdeck. However, if this option is enabled, the limits will start from the top-level decks instead, which can be useful if you wish to study individual subdecks, while enforcing a total limit on cards for the deck tree. Enabling this option for any preset will affect all decks and presets in your collection.

## New Cards

The options here only affect new cards and
[learning cards](studying.md#learningrelearning-cards). Once a card
has graduated (that is, gone through all the learning steps), the options in this section no longer apply to the card.

### Learning Steps

Controls the number of learning repetitions, and the delay
between them. One or more delays, separated by spaces must be entered.

> Each time you click "Good" during review, the card moves to the next step. Each time you click "Again", the card goes back to the first step.

Reviewer 2: I think backticks were better in this section.

Author: @dae Because we are talking of buttons, we actually should be using bold. Do I do this in this PR or can follow up later?

Reviewer 2: If you're happy to do a follow-up, that will let us get this one over the line.

For example, let's say that your learning steps are 1m 10m 1d.

- When you click "Again", the card goes through the first step, and is shown
  again 1 minute later.
- When you click "Good" on a new card or after the 1 minute step, it moves
  to the next step, and is shown again in 10 minutes. 
- When you click "Good" on a card after the 10 minute step, it is delayed
  until the next day.
- When you click "Good" on the card the next day, it graduates and
  becomes a review card. The card is shown again after the delay configured by the
  _graduating interval_.

If there’s nothing else to study, Anki will show cards up to 20 minutes
early by default. The amount of time to look ahead is configurable in
the [preferences](preferences.md).

For more info on how the steps work, see the [learning](studying.md#learningrelearning-cards) section.

#### Day Boundaries

Anki treats small steps and steps that [cross a day boundary](/preferences.md#review) differently.
With small steps, the cards are shown as soon as the delay has passed,

> in preference to review cards. This is done so that

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
in preference to review cards and new cards. This is done so that
```

you can answer the card as closely to your requested delay as possible.
In contrast, if the step crosses a day boundary, the delay is automatically converted to days. For example, if next day starts after 5 hours and the delay is 6 hours, Anki converts the delay to 1 day.

### Graduating Interval

The number of days to wait before showing a card again, after the Good button is used on the final learning step. This means that it is the first interval
after the learning card graduates. Please see the example
from [earlier in this section](deck-options.md#learning-steps).

### Easy Interval

The number of days to wait before showing a card again, after the Easy button is used on it.

The "Easy" button turns learning cards into a review cards regardless of which step you're on,
and assigns them the delay you have configured in this option. Easy interval should always be at least
as long as the graduating interval, and typically a few days longer.

### Insertion Order

Controls whether Anki should add new cards into the deck randomly, or sequentially.
When you change this option, Anki will re-sort the decks in the current preset.

> If you're not using an outdated Anki version, you don't need to change this option. Instead, see [display order](deck-options.md#display-order) later in this section].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
On recent Anki versions, you should leave this option set to `sequential`, and adjust the [display order](deck-options.md#display-order) instead.
```

before changing them, as mistakes can reduce Anki's effectiveness.

If you're on the desktop app, do any of the following to open deck options:

- Click the gear icon on the Decks screen.
- Select a deck on the Decks screen, and then click **Options**
  at the bottom of the screen.
- Click "More" > "Options" while in review mode.
- Press <kbd>o</kbd> while in review mode.

Here are some community posts about deck options:

- [Deck Options Explained](https://forums.ankiweb.net/t/deck-options-explained/213)
- [Deck Options in a Mental Map](https://forums.ankiweb.net/t/deck-options-in-a-mental-map/15757)

Note: both of them were written for the earlier versions of Anki.

## Presets

Anki allows you to share options between different decks, to make
it easier to update options in many decks at once. To do this, options are
grouped into _presets_. If you change an option in a preset, the change is applied to all decks that use the same preset. All newly created decks use the "Default" preset.

To change the options in one deck but not other decks, click the
arrow icon in the top right of the Deck Options window. The following are shown:

> - **Save**: Saves all modifications you've made after opening the deck options screen.

Author: No strong feelings but "after" is a less ambiguous (and easier sounding) word than "since".

> - **Save**: Saves all modifications you've made after opening the deck options screen.

Reviewer: Neither word is easier or harder -- but "after" is definitely the more ambiguous word, especially with this tense. If you want to use it, I think you need to adjust the tense or simplify the sentence.

> - **Add**: Add a new preset, with the default options.

Reviewer: > I would say remove the "for the preset" part.

I don't know which part you're proposing to remove. 

This list is about the options -- "If you’d like to alter the settings on one deck but not other decks" -- so making clear what will happen to _this deck_ seems on point.

> - **Add**: Add a new preset, with the default options.

Reviewer: This is not resolved. But it also needs to be corrected for tense. 

```suggestion
- **Add Preset**: Adds a new preset for this deck, with the default options.
```

- **Clone**: Clone your current preset, which is useful if you
   want to modify some of the  options but keep the rest as they are.
- **Rename**: Changes the name of the current preset.

> - **Delete**: Deletes the current preset. This will make your next sync

Reviewer: > but "require" can be really confusing in some contexts. Better to not use it. For one example, see [mailchimp].
I don't see how this is one of those situations where the meaning could go in either direction. We need a stronger word that "make" and I don't see a reason to change it from the original "require."

> That's pretty intuitive when it happens. Most people read docs for specific problems they're trying to solve. This wont be something most people will seek to learn in the manual.
I strongly disagree. First, I'm not sure how intuitive it is, since I'm sitting here right now unable to intuit it! 🙃 Second, "what happens when I delete this?" is definitely a question the docs should be able to answer.

> - **Delete**: Deletes the current preset. This will make your next sync

Author: > We need a stronger word that "make" and I don't see a reason to change it from the original "require."

"X requires Y" can mean "If X happens, Y will happen" or it can mean "For X to happen, Y will need to happen". Sure, it's easy for you as a L1 speaker and experienced Anki user. I can make this "If you use this option, your next sync will be a one-way sync".

> Second, "what happens when I delete this?" is definitely a question the docs should be able to answer.

My point was we should be more task oriented and shouldn't fill up the manual with reference/concept that most users do not look for. Some of us may enjoy reading manuals, but most people aren't looking for this.

> - **Delete**: Deletes the current preset. This will make your next sync

Reviewer: > "X requires Y" can mean ...

Yes, it can, but as I said, that isn't an issue here. This is "X will require Y to be ..." -- the requirement flows both directions, so it's not ambiguous. 

> My point was we should be more task oriented

I still don't understand how this *is not* task oriented. It's about a specific command and what it causes to happen.

> - **Delete**: Deletes the current preset. This will make your next sync

Author: > Yes, it can, but as I said, that isn't an issue here. This is "X will require Y to be ..." -- the requirement flows both directions, so it's not ambiguous.

Non-native English speakers, at least where I live, think of what immediately follows *require* as a precondition for what immediately precedes *requires* (which is how the word is used most of the time). That grammatical structure "X requires Y to be" also doesn't make sense in a lot of languages.

> I still don't understand how this is not task oriented. It's about a specific command and what it causes to happen.

I might have misinterpreted you. But I still think it's unnecessary information. Let's not do it here.

  a one-way sync.
- **Save to all subdecks**: Like "Save", but also assigns the selected preset to all
  subdecks of the currently selected deck.
- **Optimize all presets**: When FSRS is enabled, this allows you to optimize the parameters of all presets at once.

Deck options are not retroactive. For example, if you change an option that
controls the delay after failing a card, cards that you failed before 
changing this option will still have the old delay, not the new one.

## Subdecks

> If your deck has subdecks, you can assign each subdeck a different preset.

Reviewer: Not resolved.

## Subdecks

If your deck has subdecks, each deck can optionally be assigned a different preset.
If your deck has subdecks, you can assign each subdeck a different preset.
When Anki shows a card, it will check which subdeck the card is in, and use the options
for that deck. There are some exceptions:

- The [display order](#display-order) options in the v3 scheduler are taken from the

- The "New cards/day" and "Maximum reviews/day" [limits](#daily-limits) of a subdeck affects the number of cards gathered from that subdeck. But the amount of cards you see depends on the limits set on the deck you select to study.
- The [display order](#display-order) options in the are taken from the
  deck you select to study, not the deck of the current card.

For example, let's say you have this collection:

    - Deck A (Preset 1)
      - Deck A::Subdeck B (Preset 2)
        - Card B1
        - Card B2

Presets 1 and 2 are identical, with two exceptions:
Preset 1 and Preset 2 are identical, with two exceptions:

- Preset 1:
- New Cards - Learning steps: 1m 10m
- Display Order - New/review priority: Mix with reviews
  - Learning steps: 1m 10m
  - New/review order: Mix with reviews
- Preset 2:

> - New Cards - Learning steps: 20m 2h
> - Display Order - New/review priority: Show after reviews
>   - Learning steps: 20m 2h
>   - New/review order: Show after reviews
> 
> If you choose to study Subdeck B:
> 
> 
> - Learning steps for all new cards will be 20m 2h (Preset 2 applies).
> - All new cards will be shown after reviews (Preset 2 applies).
> 
> 
> 
> 
> If you choose to study Deck A:
> 
> - All new cards will be mixed with reviews (preset 1 applies)
> - Learning steps for new cards in Deck A will be 1m 10m (Preset 1 applies).
> - Learning steps for new cards in Subdeck B will be 20m 2h (Preset 2 applies).
> - All new cards will be mixed with reviews (Preset 1 applies).
> 
> If you choose to study Subdeck B:
> 
> - All new cards will be shown after reviews (preset 2 applies)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Deck A (Preset 1)
      - New Card A
      - Deck A::Subdeck B (Preset 2)
        - New Card B

Preset 1 and Preset 2 are identical, with two exceptions:

- Preset 1:
  - Learning steps: 1m 10m
  - New/review order: Mix with reviews
- Preset 2:
  - Learning steps: 20m 2h
  - New/review order: Show after reviews

If you select Deck A to study:
- Learning steps for New Card A will be 1m 10m (Preset 1 applies).
- Learning steps for New Card B will be 20m 2h (Preset 2 applies).
- New cards will be mixed with reviews (Preset 1 applies).

If you select Subdeck B to study:
- Learning steps for New Card B will be 20m 2h (Preset 2 applies).
- New cards will be shown after reviews (Preset 2 applies).
```
I tried to reformulate this working backward from what we want the example to show, and I think this is closer to that goal.

I assume that you switched A and B to make the juxtaposition more clear, but I think it is more confusing to take them out of order.

Reviewer: Not resolved. 

> You're introducing extra elements here

The original example always had 2 cards, so they aren't extra elements. I encourage you to approach it from the end result as well. What should this example demonstrate for the reader? From the way it is written, it seems that it needs to show something that will be controlled by the click-to-study deck, and something that won't. If you have a different understanding of the purpose of the example, let's talk about that. 

> "Deck A::Subdeck B" also doesn't help.

I didn't change that. That's the currently published text, and part of your PR.

If you choose to study Subdeck B:

- All new cards will be shown after reviews (preset 2 applies)

## Daily Limits

### New Cards/Day

Controls how many new cards are introduced each day you open the program. If you
This option controls how many new cards can be studied each day you open the program. If you
study fewer than the limit, or miss a day, the next day the counts will be back
to your limit - they do not accumulate.
to their limit: cards do not accumulate.

When decks are nested (e.g Parent, Parent::Child, Parent::Child::Grandchild),
the way the limits are applied depends on the scheduler version.
When studying a deck that has subdecks inside it, the limits set on each subdeck control the maximum number of cards drawn from that particular deck. The selected deck's limits control the total cards that will be shown.

- v1 applies parent limits to children, regardless of which deck you click on
- v2 behaves similarly to v1 for new cards. For reviews, only the limits of
  the deck you click on are honored.
- v3 honors the limits of the deck you click on, and any decks inside it.
  Limits from parents above the deck you clicked on are ignored.

> For more information, please see the [v3 scheduler](https://faqs.ankiweb.net/the-2021-scheduler.html#daily-limits) page.

Author: ![Screenshot_2024-09-06-14-52-10-04_4d38fce200f96aeac5e860e739312e76](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/1d4a798b-505e-49fb-8d04-ca4e1bd04fe0)
It's grayed out so I can't click it. If you think this is a blocker for this PR, add another suggestion and I'll see if it works.

> For more information, please see the [v3 scheduler](https://faqs.ankiweb.net/the-2021-scheduler.html#daily-limits) page.

Reviewer: It would be really helpful if you didn't mark things resolved that are not resolved. It's really hard to find them once you do that.

> By default, the review limit also applies to new cards, and no new cards will be shown when the review limit has been reached. If this option is enabled, new cards will be shown regardless of the review limit. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, new cards are included in the maximum daily limit, so no new cards will be shown when the number of review cards will already reach (or exceed) the maximum limit that day. However, if this option is enabled, new cards will be shown regardless of the maximum limit. Enabling this option for any preset will affect all decks and presets in your collection.
```

> If your review limit is set to 200, and you have 190 review cards waiting, a maximum of 10
> new cards will be introduced. If your review limit has been reached, then Anki won't show you any new cards. This is useful if you have a backlog of review cards.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

The clarified language above expresses this well, so I don't think we need an example anymore. 

It also disrupts the flow of the subsection, since it first talks about the default, then about the setting, and then in more detail about the default.

> If you have a backlog, we recommended you hold off on new cards until you
> catch up with your backlog, as introducing more new cards when you're behind will only
> make the backlog worse.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have a backlog of overdue review cards, it is recommended that you stop introducing new cards until you
catch up with that backlog. Continuing to introduce new cards when you're already behind can 
make the backlog worse.
```

> By default, limits of top-level deck do not apply if you're studying from its subdeck. If this option is enabled, the limits will start from the top-level deck instead, which can be useful if you wish to study individual subdecks, while enforcing a total limit on cards for the deck tree.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, the daily limits of a higher-level deck do not apply if you're studying from its subdeck. However, if this option is enabled, the limits will start from the top-level decks instead, which can be useful if you wish to study individual subdecks, while enforcing a total limit on cards for the deck tree. Enabling this option for any preset will affect all decks and presets in your collection.
```

Deck options primarily control the way Anki schedules cards. It is recommended
that you spend a few weeks with the defaults to get a feel for how Anki works
before you start adjusting the options. Please make sure you understand the options
before changing them, as mistakes can reduce Anki's effectiveness.

> If you're on the desktop app, do any of the following to open deck options:

Author: I think the logic behind this was that the tooltips direct people to this manual and so I didnt want to make assumptions about the reader.

> If you're on the desktop app, do any of the following to open deck options:

Reviewer: It's unfortunate if the tooltips in the other apps aren't linking to their own manuals, but if we're going to try to serve all of the audiences, we should include all of the instructions -- or at least link out to the Droid and Mobile instructions.

> If you're on the desktop app, do any of the following to open deck options:

Author: To not make it confusing it should mention "On desktop" or something similar. But linking to other manuals wouldn't be necessary. If someone is accessing it from mobile, they already know how to access it.

The language here was bad, I should've said "On desktop" instead of "If you're on desktop".

> If you're on the desktop app, do any of the following to open deck options:

Reviewer: It looks like you've now changed it to: 
> On your computer, do any of the following to open deck options

I'll defer to Damien - https://github.com/ankitects/anki-manual/pull/250#discussion_r1752323650

- Siblings later in the list can not bury earlier card types. For example, if you disable burying of new cards, and study a new card, it will not bury any interday learning or review cards, and you may see both a review sibling and new sibling in the same session.

The options are:

- **Bury new siblings**: Whether other new cards of the same note (e.g. reverse cards, adjacent cloze deletions) will be delayed until the next day.
- **Bury review siblings**: Whether other review cards of the same note will be delayed until the next day.
- **Bury interday learning siblings**: Whether other learning cards of the same note that crossed a day boundary will be delayed until the next day.

For more info about burying cards, please see [this section](./studying.md#siblings-and-burying) of the manual.

## Audio

- **Don't play audio automatically**: By default, Anki automatically plays any audio you have on
cards. If you turn on this option Anki will not play audio until you press the replay audio key, <kbd>r</kbd> or <kbd>F5</kbd>.

- **Skip question when replaying answer**: Controls whether audio from

> the question side is played when you use replay action on the answer side. Note that, Anki [does not automatically play]((templates/fields.md#special-fields)) audio from the `{{FrontSide}}` field. This option does not influence the behaviour of automatic play.

Reviewer 2: Link is malformed

The exact shape of the graph is different for everyone. However, there are two patterns that hold true for all:

- As desired retention approaches 1.0, the workload increases drastically.
  Imagine you have a card with a 90% chance of remembering it after 100 days. If your desired retention is 0.90, you'll review the card again in 100 days. But if your desired retention is 0.95, you'll need to review it after 46 days instead.
  This means that the intervals of your cards almost halve at 0.95 desired retention and you need to review cards twice as frequently compared to 0.90 desired retention.
  At 0.97, the interval will be 27 days (you'll have to review your cards 3.7x as frequently).
  At 0.99, the interval will be only 9 days (you'll have to review your cards more than 10x more frequently than with the defaults).

- As desired retention decreases, you'll forget a greater percentage of your
  cards, and those cards will need to be reviewed again. Eventually, you'll
  get to a point where the forgotten cards contribute more to your workload
  than you gain from the longer delays, which is why you see the workload

>   on the left of the graph increasing. Also, note that forgetting

Reviewer 2: 'Note' feels a bit strange there. How about "keep in mind" or "don't forget"?

Author: ```suggestion
  on the left of the graph increasing. Also, keep in mind that forgetting
```

  material frequently is demotivating.

For these reasons, we suggest you be conservative when adjusting this
number, and recommend you keep it lower than 0.95 and higher than the [minimum recommended retention](#compute-minimum-recommended-retention).

### FSRS Parameters

FSRS parameters affect how cards are scheduled. Do not change the parameters manually or copy them from someone else.

**Optimize FSRS Parameters**

> The FSRS optimizer uses machine learning to learn your memory patterns and find parameters that best fit your review history in a preset. To do this, the optimizer requires several reviews to fine-tune the parameters.

Reviewer 2: Correct, but doesn't seem important to mention up the top.

```suggestion
The FSRS optimizer uses machine learning to learn your memory patterns and find parameters that best fit your review history. To do this, the optimizer requires several reviews to fine-tune the parameters.
```

When you click the Optimize button, FSRS will analyze your review history, and generate parameters that are optimal for your memory and the content you're studying. If you have decks that vary wildly in subjective difficulty, it
is recommended to assign them separate presets, as the parameters for easier
decks will be different from harder decks. There is no need to optimize your
parameters frequently: once every few months is sufficient.

By default, parameters are calculated from the review history of all 
decks using the current preset. You can optionally [adjust the search](/searching.md)
before optimizing the parameters, if you'd like to change which cards
are used for optimization.

You can also optimize the parameters for all of your presets at once, by clicking on the

> down arrow in the top right, then choosing "Optimize all presets".

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
down arrow in the top right, then choosing "Optimize All Presets".
```

If set, cards reviewed before the provided date will be ignored when optimizing FSRS parameters. This can be useful if you imported someone else's scheduling data, or have changed the way you use the answer buttons.

### Reschedule Cards on Change

This option controls whether the due dates of cards will be changed when you enable FSRS, change desired retention, or change the parameters. The default is not to reschedule cards: future reviews will use the new scheduling, but there will be no immediate change to your workload. If rescheduling is enabled, the due dates of cards will be changed. Depending on your desired retention, it will often result in a large number of cards becoming due, so **this option is not recommended** when first switching from SM-2.

Use this option sparingly, as it will add a review entry to each of your cards, and increase the size of your collection.

If you're first switching from SM-2 and still wish to use this option, we recommend you first create a backup, enable FSRS with rescheduling, check the future due graph in statistics, and then if needed, you can undo or restore from the backup.

### Compute Minimum Recommended Retention

> Compute minimum recommended retention (CMRR) attempts to find the desired retention value that leads to the most material learnt, in the least amount of time. The calculated number can serve as a reference when deciding what to set your desired retention to. You may wish to choose a higher desired retention, if you’re willing to trade more study time for a greater recall rate. However, setting your desired retention lower than the minimum is not recommended, as you'll spend more time studying than necessary.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Compute minimum recommended retention (CMRR) attempts to find the desired retention value that leads to the most material learnt, in the least amount of time. The calculated number can serve as a reference when deciding what to set your desired retention to. You may wish to choose a higher desired retention, if you’re willing to trade more study time for a greater recall rate. However, setting your desired retention lower than the minimum is not recommended, as you'll spend more time studying than necessary, due to increased forgetting.
```

Reviewer 3: Recall rate -> retention rate

> Compute minimum recommended retention (CMRR) attempts to find the desired retention value that leads to the most material learnt, in the least amount of time. The calculated number can serve as a reference when deciding what to set your desired retention to. You may wish to choose a higher desired retention, if you’re willing to trade more study time for a greater recall rate. However, setting your desired retention lower than the minimum is not recommended, as you'll spend more time studying than necessary.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Compute minimum recommended retention (CMRR) attempts to find the desired retention value that leads to the most material learnt, in the least amount of time. The calculated number can serve as a reference when deciding what to set your desired retention to. You may wish to choose a higher desired retention, if you’re willing to trade more study time for a greater retention rate. However, setting your desired retention lower than the minimum is not recommended, as you'll spend more time studying than necessary, due to increased forgetting.
```

Reviewer 3: Recall rate -> retention rate + Dae's suggestion

#### Learning and Relearning Steps

(Re)learning steps of 1 day or greater are not recommended when using FSRS. The main 
reason they were popular with the legacy SM-2 scheduler is because repeatedly 
failing a card after it has graduated from the learning phase could reduce 
its ease a lot, leading to what some people called "ease hell". This is not 
a problem that FSRS suffers from.  By keeping your learning steps under a 
day, you will allow FSRS to schedule cards at times it has calculated are 
optimal for your material and memory. Another reason not to use longer 
learning steps is because FSRS may end up scheduling the first review for a 
shorter time than your last learning step, leading to the "Hard" button 
showing a longer time than "Good".

We also recommend you keep the number of learning steps to a minimum. Evidence
shows that repeating a card multiple times in a single day after you've

> remembered it does not significantly help in long term retention, so your time is

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
remembered it does not significantly help in long-term retention, so your time is
```

For more info about burying cards, please see [this section](./studying.md#siblings-and-burying) of the manual.

## Audio

- **Don't play audio automatically**: By default, Anki automatically plays any audio you have on
cards. If you turn on this option Anki will not play audio until you press the replay audio key, <kbd>r</kbd> or <kbd>F5</kbd>.

- **Skip question when replaying answer**: Controls whether audio from
the question side is played when you use replay action on the answer side. Note that, Anki [does not automatically play]((templates/fields.md#special-fields)) audio from the `{{FrontSide}}` field. This option does not influence the behaviour of automatic play.

## FSRS

The [Free Spaced Repetition Scheduler (FSRS)](https://github.com/open-spaced-repetition/fsrs4anki/wiki/ABC-of-FSRS) is an alternative to Anki's legacy
SuperMemo 2 (SM-2) scheduler. By more accurately determining when you are likely
to forget, it can help you remember more material in the same amount of time.

When you turn on FSRS, some new options
become available, and SM-2 specific options, such as "Graduating interval",

> "Easy bonus", etc. is hidden. This option is shared by all deck presets.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
"Easy bonus", etc. are hidden. This option is shared by all deck presets.
```

When you click the Optimize button, FSRS will analyze your review history, and generate parameters that are optimal for your memory and the content you're studying. If you have decks that vary wildly in subjective difficulty, it
is recommended to assign them separate presets, as the parameters for easier
decks will be different from harder decks. There is no need to optimize your
parameters frequently: once every few months is sufficient.

By default, parameters are calculated from the review history of all 
decks using the current preset. You can optionally [adjust the search](/searching.md)
before optimizing the parameters, if you'd like to change which cards
are used for optimization.

You can also optimize the parameters for all of your presets at once, by clicking on the
down arrow in the top right, then choosing "Optimize all presets".

**Evaluate FSRS Parameters**

You can use the "Evaluate" button to see metrics that show how well the parameters fit your review history. Smaller numbers

> indicate a better fit to your review history.

Reviewer 3: Add something like "Understanding these metrics is not necessary to use FSRS".

Log loss doesn't have an intuitive interpretation. RMSE (bins) can be
interpreted as the average difference between the predicted probability
of recalling a card (R) and the actual
probability measured from your review history. For example, RMSE=5% means that, on average, FSRS
is off by 5% when predicting R.

Note that log loss and RMSE (bins) are not perfectly correlated,

> so two decks may have similar RMSE values but very different log-loss values, or the other way around.

Reviewer 3: Add something like "Understanding these metrics is not necessary to use FSRS".

By default, log loss and RMSE (bins) are calculated from all decks using the current preset. You can optionally [adjust the search](/searching.md) before evaluating the parameters, if you'd like to change which cards are used for evaluation.

> ### Ignore Reviews Before

Reviewer 3: Depending on when this will be merged, it may be better to rename it to "Ignore cards reviewed before", since it will be renamed in the next release

Author: I'll keep these in mind.

Reviewer 2: Suggest we just change it before we forget; a temporary mismatch shouldn't be that confusing.

The options are:

- **Bury new siblings**: Whether other new cards of the same note (e.g. reverse cards, adjacent cloze deletions) will be delayed until the next day.
- **Bury review siblings**: Whether other review cards of the same note will be delayed until the next day.
- **Bury interday learning siblings**: Whether other learning cards of the same note that crossed a day boundary will be delayed until the next day.

For more info about burying cards, please see [this section](./studying.md#siblings-and-burying) of the manual.

## Audio

- **Don't play audio automatically**: By default, Anki automatically plays any audio you have on
cards. If you turn on this option Anki will not play audio until you press the replay audio key, <kbd>r</kbd> or <kbd>F5</kbd>.

- **Skip question when replaying answer**: Controls whether audio from
the question side should be played when replaying the audio while on answer side. Please note that it does not control what happens when you show the

> answer; for that please see [this section](templates/fields.md#special-fields).

Author: Anybody knows what is this cross-referencing? I didn't find anything.

Reviewer: Isn't this on point? Replay is controlled with that Deck Options setting -- initial-play is controlled on the template. 
> FrontSide will not automatically play any audio that was on the front side of the card. If you wish to have the same audio play automatically on both the front and back of the card, you’ll need to manually include the audio fields on the back as well.

Author: I was thrown into some unfamiliar section; didn't even noticed that line. I changed this to:

> Controls whether audio from the question side is played when you use replay action on the answer side. Note that, Anki does not automatically play audio from the {{FrontSide}} field. This option does not influence the behaviour of automatic play.

cards. If you turn on this option Anki will not play audio until you press the replay audio key, <kbd>r</kbd> or <kbd>F5</kbd>.

- **Skip question when replaying answer**: Controls whether audio from

> the question side is played when you use replay action on the answer side. Note that, Anki [does not automatically play](/templates/fields.md#special-fields)) audio from the `{{FrontSide}}` field. This option does not influence the behaviour of automatic play.

Reviewer 2: Please use ./, not /, or it will cause an error.

Reviewer 2: Might be why the image is broken too.

cards. If you turn on this option Anki will not play audio until you press the replay audio key, <kbd>r</kbd> or <kbd>F5</kbd>.

- **Skip question when replaying answer**: Controls whether audio from
the question side is played when you use replay action on the answer side. Note that, Anki [does not automatically play]((templates/fields.md#special-fields)) audio from the `{{FrontSide}}` field. This option does not influence the behaviour of automatic play.

## FSRS

> The [Free Spaced Repetition Scheduler (FSRS)](https://github.com/open-spaced-repetition/fsrs4anki) is an alternative to Anki's legacy

Reviewer 3: Maybe link to "ABC of FSRS" instead?

  and AnkiWeb all support it. AnkiDroid supports it in 2.17+. If
  one of your clients doesn't support it, things will not work correctly.
- If you previously used the 'custom scheduling' version of FSRS, please make
  sure you clear out the custom scheduling section before enabling FSRS.

### Desired Retention

Desired retention controls how likely you are to remember cards when they are scheduled for a review.
The default value of 0.90 will schedule cards so you have a 90% chance of remembering
them when they come up for review again. This should normally translate to remembering around 90% cards when they are reviewed, and only failing around 10%.

Here is a graph that shows how adjusting this value will affect your workload:

<img src="media/FSRS_retention.png" width="600">

There are two things to notice:

- As desired retention approaches 1.0, the workload increases drastically.
  Imagine you have a card with a 90% chance of remembering it after 100 days. If your desired retention is 0.90, you'll review the card again in 100 days. But if your desired retention is 0.95, you'll need to review it after 46 days instead.

>   This means the intervals of your cards almost halves at 0.95 desired retention and you need be reviewing cards twice as frequently compared to 0.90 desired retention.

Reviewer 3: "This means that the intervals of your cards almost halve at 0.95 desired retention and you need to review cards twice as frequently compared to 0.90 desired retention."

>   At 0.97, the delay will be 27 days (you'll be reviewing 3.7x as frequently).

Reviewer 3: "At 0.97, the interval will be 27 days (you'll have to review your cards 3.7x as frequently)."

>   At 0.99, the delay will be only 9 days (more than 10x what you'd be doing with

Reviewer 3: "At 0.99, the interval will be only 9 days (you'll have to review your cards more than 10x more frequently than with"

decks will be different from harder decks. There is no need to optimize your
parameters frequently: once every few months is sufficient.

By default, parameters are calculated from the review history of all 
decks using the current preset. You can optionally [adjust the search](/searching.md)
before optimizing the parameters, if you'd like to change which cards
are used for optimization.

You can also optimize the parameters for all of your presets at once, by clicking on the
down arrow in the top right, then choosing "Optimize all presets".

**Evaluate FSRS Parameters**

You can use the "Evaluate" button to see metrics that show how well the parameters fit your review history. Smaller numbers
indicate a better fit to your review history.

Log loss doesn't have an intuitive interpretation. RMSE (bins) can be
interpreted as the average difference between the predicted probability
of recalling a card (R) and the actual
probability measured from your review history. For example, RMSE=5% means that, on average, FSRS
is off by 5% when predicting R.

Note that log loss and RMSE (bins) are not perfectly correlated,

> so two decks may have similar RMSE values but very different log-loss values, or the other around.

Reviewer 3: Either "or the other way around" or "and vice-versa", the latter sounds better.

#### Learning and Re-learning Steps

(Re)learning steps of 1+ days are not recommended when using FSRS. The main 
reason they were popular with the legacy SM-2 scheduler is because repeatedly 
failing a card after it has graduated from the learning phase could reduce 
its ease a lot, leading to what some people called "ease hell". This is not 
a problem that FSRS suffers from.  By keeping your learning steps under a 
day, you will allow FSRS to schedule cards at times it has calculated are 
optimum for your material and memory. Another reason not to use longer 
learning steps is because FSRS may end up scheduling the first review for a 
shorter time than your last learning step, leading to the "Hard" button 

> showing a longer time than "Good".

Author: The Manual is really inconsistent. I've searched the word "Good" in my PDF and in some cases it's bold, otherwise in code format, sometimes with quotes. I'll open an issue about this.

so two decks may have similar RMSE values but very different log-loss values,
and vice-versa.

### Reschedule Cards on Change

This option controls whether the due dates of cards will be changed when you enable FSRS, or change the parameters. The default is not to reschedule cards: future reviews will use the new scheduling, but there will be no immediate change to your workload. If rescheduling is enabled, the due dates of cards will be changed, often resulting in a large number of cards becomingdue, so **activating this option is not recommended** when first switching from SM-2.

If you wish to visualize how FSRS would change your schedule without altering your workload, there are two ways you can do so:

- Enable FSRS without rescheduling, and compare the interval and stability graphs. The
interval graph will show the current intervals of cards; the stability graph will show the

> intervals FSRS would give cards if the desired retention is 0.9.

Reviewer 3: Is this really helpul? I've never done this, nor heard of anyone doing this.

- [FSRS4Anki Wiki](https://github.com/open-spaced-repetition/fsrs4anki/wiki)
- [FSRS4Anki on Github](https://github.com/open-spaced-repetition/fsrs4anki)

## Advanced

### Maximum Interval

The maximum number of days a review card will wait before it's shown again. When reviews have reached the limit, "Hard", "Good" and "Easy" will all give the same delay. The shorter you set this, the greater your workload will be. The default is 100 years; you can decrease this to a smaller number if you’re willing to trade extra study time for higher retention.

### Historical Retention

This setting is hidden unless FSRS is turned on.

When some of your review history is missing, FSRS needs to fill in the gaps. By default, it will assume that when you did those old reviews, you remembered 90% of the material. If your old retention was appreciably higher or lower than 90%, adjusting this option will allow FSRS to better approximate the missing reviews.

Your review history may be incomplete for two reasons:

> - Because you're using the "ignore cards reviewed before" option.

Reviewer 3: And here it says "Ignore cards reviewed before"
